---
layout: post
title:  "High school, Chinese literature"
categories: phd
---

People who knew me from high school should all agree on one thing that I was really terrible in Chinese. 

Richard Feynman used to express his anger in English 'It seemed to me ridiculous to worry about whether you spelled something wrong or not, because English spelling is just a human convention - it has nothing to do with anything real, anything from nature'. I couldn't agree more. After substituting 'English' with 'Chinese' this sentence works perfectly fine. In Chinese exams, there is always a question asking student to put down the correct phonetic transcription of ancient Chinese characters. I have read outside school that all language evolves very rapidly, and they could sound totally different within 100 years evolution. This is something I can relate to my life. My grandparents speak very terrible Mandarin, but I am pretty sure my ancesters dating back to 300 years ago were all Chinese. I learned this from the heavily tainted genealogy kept in my grandfather's drawer. I was always having the fantasy that my favourite dead ancient people can come back to life so that I can ask them things happenned in the past. I would not be surprised if one of them tells me the real pronounciation is not in our phonetic dictionary today. Such things are still illusions to me. However, it seems the textbook editors always manage to find the 'correct' pronounciation. Until today I have yet to figure out how they managed to find it. Perhaps there exists an audio recorder in a secret national laboratory that has the poem by Qu Yuan word for word intact in it? Perhaps my hypothesis of some back to life ancient people is true? Out of these two explanations the second one sounds more realistic to me. Well, nontherless, they have the 'correct' answer for students to memorise. I kept asking myself the meaning of all these hark work I put in to memorise the pronounciation of 1000 ancient Chinese charcters. Is this really useful for me? I don't know, I never had the chance to learn the real pronounciation of ancient Chinese, but I think I should have more fun learning that than the convention created by modern authority.

In the exams, there is another question asking students to interpret the article. Well, in Chinese literature, blossom means happpy and pond means calm, which is pretty much like red means angry and blue means sad. That I get, but the silent parting of two friends? Maybe they ran out of words? Maybe they were angry with each other? Who the heck would know exactly what they were thinking!? Yet in the exam they only accept one answer - they missed each other too much and could not bear to express their sadness when parting. Is this really what the author was thinking when they wrote the article? Possible, but I am not sure. My sadness was nothing less than those of the two parting friends when I saw my grade, for that I am sure. If I wanted to make a metaphor, the exam authority tried to fit 4 points using a degree 128 polynomial, and argues it is the only answer - what a ludicrous things they have done! Fortunately in this world there are people agreeing with me. In The Secret by Denise Levertov it goes as 'Two girls discover the secret of life in a sudden line of poetry. I who don't know the secret wrote the line'.


